Does anybody have questions
about Astro the framework?
From this point forward,
I'm talking about deployment.
>> Do you have an idea,
you're starting your site,
you're like, I'm not gonna do service side rendering,
I'm gonna do a hybrid or what?
Do you have a list or an idea when you're
starting that to pick your starting point?
You know, whether you want it to be
server-side rendered or what.
I'm imagining building something and
thinking like, I want that, and
then getting into going, actually,
that was the wrong choice.
So what you consider at the start.
>> It depends on the framework
that I'm using, right?
But so
because we're talking about Astro today,
I'm gonna answer in the context of Astro.
I start static because
if I need servers later,
you only have to add this, This.
You don't have to refactor anything else
in your site, you're just telling it,
okay, I'm gonna use some server stuff now,
and it's like, okay, do whatever you want.
[LAUGH] I'm not your dad,
you can do whatever you want.
[LAUGH] And I think that's such
a powerful way to think about it.
So to answer that question more
specifically, when I get a new project,
what am typically looking at is, what
are the deliverables that are considered
like the value metrics for the client,
for the customer, for my boss.
And what are the things that,
why are we building this?
What goal does it accomplish?
And in order to accomplish that goal,
what do we have to build?
So if somebody comes to me and
says, we are a fintech company and
you need to build a real
time stock ticker, and
if you're not up to the second
accurate we can get sued.
I'm making very different choices
because that's a very specific
set of requirements that
has legal ramifications.
If somebody tells me we've
got an e commerce store, and
our inventory updates, people,
we sell a few things an hour and so
because of that we need our
inventory to be up to date.
I can make a client side
request to validate whether or
not something is in inventory, and
the inventory itself will rebuild
the site every time something's sold.
And it'll be live within minutes, so
I don't need to do anything else, right?
I don't mind having that little
client side request just to say, hey,
is this sold out?
Because if so, disable this button.
So I'm kind of looking at
what are the requirements?
What does the failure state look like?
What is the consequences of something
being a minute out of date or
5 minutes out of date?
And typically speaking, the penalty for
being 5 minutes out of date is nothing,
nobody cares.
So I'm usually gonna reach for
static by default, and
then when I hit a case, add a newsletter
form, then I can flip the switch and
now I've got pre-rendering for
just that newsletter form page.
Or again, we have to add user accounts.
Maybe I would turn on server rendering for
my user account so
that I can avoid a loading skeleton when
I wanna bring in the user specific data,
I wanna instead do that
on the server side.
It all kind of depends
on what we're doing.
Who's impacted by it,
who our competition is, right?
If I'm building a site where I
have to compete with Amazon,
I'm probably making different choices than
if I'm building a site that has to compete
with the average local restaurant website.
And so it really kind of comes
down to the specific requirements,
the specific client and
what the success criteria is.
But, yeah, I mean as a general rule,
static first, you can turn on hybrid
whenever you want, and there's not
really any consequences for doing that.
>> How would you approach authentication?
>> I would approach authentication
using cookie based auth.
I prefer cookie based auth in general,
because you can do things like HTTP
only cookies and
you can make them same site only and
you get a little more kind of security
baked in from the browser that way.
And if you're doing that, then you've
got the ability through this hybrid
rendering to check the cookies
as part of the rendering flow.
Or if you want, you can also make the
cookies not restricted from JavaScript and
then you can use the cookies
as part of your client side
rendering to determine auth state as well.
So that's how I approach it, and
in Astro I don't think it would be much
different than how I've approached
it in any other framework.
If you need server rendering,
If you've got it, if you don't,
all the client side approaches work,
you can use, also if you wanna add auth,
like auth isn't your business.
There are some great tools out there
like clerk.io that will, my goodness,
it's good.
It just like cleans up that
whole process or clerk.dev.
Let me actually load the website
now that I'm saying that out loud.
Clerk.dev.
You just add it and it just works and
you don't have to think about anything,
it's what I always wanted other auth as a
service platforms to be and
you'd like to get you off the ground.
This is perfect if you need to
custom build your auth, yeah,
get into the cookie stuff.
There's a lot of different ways that you
can build that into both client side and
server rendered workflows.
And in either case,
you can do that with Astro.
>> Is there anything special that has
to be done with serverless functions?
For instance, with the form submission?
Is it better to use a serverless function
or go with a custom Astro server function.
>> So if you are using the server,
like the hybrid mode in Astro,
depending on where you deploy,
it will be a serverless function or
a server rendered function.
I guess the short answer
is it doesn't matter,
like whatever you wanna use is fine.
If you would implement a custom
serverless function as
opposed to using the hybrid
rendering mode in Astro.
Also kind of functionally,
you're gonna get the same outcome,
you just choose which you prefer.
If I already had a bunch of serverless
functions built that did all the form
submissions and stuff.
The advantage of porting those into
an Astro server rendered page are just
having the access right there
to customize the template
with whatever the results
of the request are.
But outside of that, there aren't
a lot of additional huge benefits.
So if all you show is a static template
that says like, thanks for signing up,
please check your email to confirm.
You can just show that page,
you don't need to port that into Astro,
you can keep the stuff you've already got,
submit to your serverless function and
then redirect to that page that says
please check your email to confirm.
But under the hood,
those Astro server rendered pages,
if you deploy to Netlify or Vercel it's
gonna be a serverless function, if you
deploy to some of the other platforms it
might be a long running Node server but
it depends on the specific implementation.
And as we'll see, when we get into
deployment, there are a lot of options for
that specific implementation.
And I haven't looked at what
the underlying details of all of them are.
But yeah, if like you're deploying on
Netlify, the functional difference between
deploying to your own serverless function
and using the Astro, like server rendered
page, there is no difference,
they're both serverless functions.
So at that point, it comes down to like,
what do you want to build?
What does your team understand?
Do you have a really good
serverless workflow on your team,
then you probably don't
need to adopt a new one.
If you don't have any serverless workflow,
Astro is probably gonna be a little more
understandable because it's closer to
the rest of what you're
building on the website.
It's always trade offs.
You've just got to decide which
one makes the most sense for
your team and your particular use case.